Let us talk about some of those requirements that you might
have for integration of your AI algorithms.
One thing that we have discussed when we talked about DICOM networking,
then DICOM networks operate by sending instances around.
So there isn't really a way to tell apart a series from studies.
Also, in other aspect,
is that when modality send data to clinical archive,
typically modalities would send entire studies.
A relevant problem that you might be dealing with is selecting the correct series.
Remember how we looked at the organization of data in NMR series in the previous lessons,
one of you analyzed a medical imaging data set.
You have multiple folders,
in these folders you have series,
in the series you have files and that's what a study might look like.
It is very likely that this is what your AI algorithm will receive and you need to think,
what criteria will you use to select the correct series,
the series that correspond to the data that your AI algorithm was trained upon.
Another thing to think about is the imaging protocol requirement.
So what type of data was your algorithm trained on?
Once you've selected the series,
is the series coming in the correct format?
When we're talking about the imaging protocols,
remember how we talked about the contrast media,
how [inaudible] talked about the contrast media that could
be present in the imaging to highlight certain things.
So you can have things like contrast phasing.
These two images here are slices from an abdominal CT
from a patient who has contrast media present in their bloodstream.
You can see the slice on the left is the arterial phase
CT when the contrast media is present in the aorta,
and on the right here,
this is what's called the portal-venous phase CT.
This is where the contrast has propagated into the kidneys and some of the liver.
As you can see, the contrast profile of your image,
the contrast resolution of your image can be quite different,
so you need to be aware whether your algorithm
is prepared to deal with differences like that.
Another type of image and aspect that you need to be aware of is called field of view.
A field of view has to do with the area that has been imaged.
Like on the image on the left here,
this might be a liver field of view,
where you have a liver fully fitting into the image
but you might not have lungs fully fitting into the image.
On the right, you have what could be a lung field of view for
a CT chest scan where you do not have the liver but you have a full image of the lungs.
Depending on what your Alpha algorithm is doing and what type of output it produces,
you might be willing to check for the correct field of
view before you ingest images for processing.
One other thing that you need to be aware of when integrating
your algorithm into a clinical network is
whether your algorithm is introducing
any workload disruptions into the life of a radiologist.
As we have seen, workflow of a radiologist is
a very important subject and something that radiologists are closely tracking.
Radiologists are pressed for time and they're pressed to be
consistent in the time that it takes them to read an image.
Your algorithm might be very useful
like automatic generation of lung nodule segmentation,
which radiologists need to review and tag whether they are correct or not,
but an algorithm like that would introduce a workflow disruption,
they would have to do something that they have not been doing before,
and you need to think of how to present it to them so that it's
convenient and does not actually require them to spend more time reading an image,
or your algorithm might not be doing workflow disruptions.
A thing like intracranial hemorrhage detector or a fracture detector that labels
image and bubbles this image up in
the worklist of images that radiologists would be reading,
would not be disrupting the workflow that much.
One other thing to keep in mind, of course,
is what systems would be affected by the result of your algorithm?
Are you sending something to the EHR system?
For example, your algorithm might be generating an early read of the image,
it might be generating some text from the image,
and this text needs to go back to some storage system,
or maybe your algorithm would be calling upon
a web-based API or sending maybe text messages.
Then things like that need to be tightly integrated with your AI model output.
So in the next section,
let us look at some of the tools that you could use to simulate clinical environments.
Let us take a closer look at the 3D slicer tool,
and let's have [inaudible] show us how he would interact with a clinical image viewer,
similar to how he interacts them in his day-to-day job.